>> OK, so the first
step is allergy,
the second step is the
bacteria, the third step is
the nutrients.
And now the fourth step,
tell us about that.
>> Fourth step is diet.
Diet has to come
into it somewhere.
We can't just eat anything.
We need to really stick
with whole foods that
are really dense in nutrients
as best as you can get it.
But if you get your proteins,
fat, and carb ratio incorrect,
you can be producing
inflammation.
And that inflammation
can then upset the gut
and then make you more
susceptible to all
of the other things that
can go wrong with the gut.
So very, very high carb diets
can be pro-inflammatory.
We know that insulins
are the underlying cause
to most disease these days.
So being able to
balance that protein
and carbohydrate balance.
Protein releases hormones
that controls insulin,
and carbohydrates
releases insulin.
So if you're able to couple
those together and give
yourself great quality,
rich fats in your diet.
Those fats are really important
for your nervous system.
So your brain is made of fat.
All of the nerves that
run down through your body
are surrounded by
a lining of fat.
So without your omega 6s,
which are your vegetable
form of fats, and
your omega 3s, which
are your animal
forms of fats, you've
really got to have a great
combination of the two.
And your essential fatty
acids, so your fats,
have to be in the right
ratios, as well, from the omega
3s and the omega 6s.
Yes, that's right,
to produce the 9s
and then be able to have a
rich source of all of it.
So it's very important.
But when it comes to treating
all of these problems
in the step-by-step
process that I go through,
I need to make sure
that someone's diet is
in the right balance to be
able to control the bacteria.
So the bacteria will, as I
said, feed on carbohydrates.
You can't remove carbohydrates
from someone's diet.
It is an absolutely essential
food for brain function.
The brain's initial
food source is glucose.
So without enough
carbohydrates you
can cause yourself
depression, as well.
So you can't just
remove carbohydrates
and be done with it, you need
to get the balance right.
And that's where a lot of people
don't really know what to do.
So getting that right
is really important.
>> So tell me, what are some of
the main carbohydrate sources
or protein sources or fat
sources that you recommend
to people as generally great
and healthy for people that are
trying to avoid
depression or anxiety?
>> That question comes down to
what's on their allergy list.
Yeah, what's on their
sensitivity list?
So what I do is I go
through their lists,
and we make a diet out
of what they can have.
So we look in the fats and
oils and the nuts and avocados
and coconut and all of
these beautiful foods.
And then we look at
all the animal products
that do contain fats,
such as omega 3s
in your eggs and your fish.
All of these are fantastic
for the brain function.
We look at the carbohydrates
that they can have,
such as the fruits
that they should have,
the grains that they can have.
For some people, they're
not gluten intolerant.
So some people are perfectly
fine with breaking down wheat,
for instance, if it's not
overprocessed too much.
Whole products, not
bleached, not overprocessed.
But then you've
got a lot of people
who, if they're including
oats in their diet
or if they're using a lot
of rice in their diet,
they're rich in B
vitamins so that they're
really important, as well.
So it's just about getting the
balance of how much they serve
themselves so that they're
not overdoing their insulin
production and they're not
feeding the bacteria too badly.
>> And you do normally suggest
combining those foods together?
So you talked about
balancing the carbohydrates
and the proteins.
Do you like to
combine them at meals
or do you like to
take them separately?
>> Well, there's two
schools of thought on that.
And I kind of agree with both,
which is a little bit tricky.
Because for those
people who've ever
tried food combining, where you
have proteins and vegetables,
and you keep the carbs
away from that meal,
that works beautifully for
improving assimilation.
So one stomach acid for protein
is different to the stomach
acid to carbohydrate.
Where if you have
your carbohydrate
and your vegetables, or
carbohydrate and fat combined,
that's a very satisfying meal.
It can give you
energy, as well as
satisfy you because the
fats make you feel satisfied
and give you further energy.
And that stops you
from being hungry.
And that produces another
type of stomach acid.
So keeping your carbs and
proteins away from each other
could work in that sense.
However, when you eat
carbohydrates on their own,
you produce
uncontrolled insulin.
And what that does is
rise your insulin level.
And a few hours later you can
go too low in blood sugar,
and then you start to crave.
And what that does
is sets off a cycle
of too much carbohydrate
through the day
because you're
constantly craving,
and your blood sugar is
up and down all day long.
To be able to balance
that, protein does that.
So protein can stabilize
your blood sugar
for up to eight hours.
So if you start you day
with a great protein meal,
you can have sustained
blood sugar all day long.
It doesn't drop too low.
You don't get that 3:30-itis,
where you have to go grabbing
chocolate somewhere or
any carbohydrate meal.
You can balance
it by doing that.
So it's a bit of a delicate mix.
And getting that right can
sometimes take a bit of help
because it's not something
that we learn mainstream,
unfortunately.
But everyone's slightly
different, as well.
So it's about finding
what suits that person.
>> And I think it sounds
like a combination of both.
But what your general
recommendation might be
is to not consume the
carbohydrates on their own
because that can cause
the blood sugar issues.
So potentially having
it with the protein,
although that can
have another effect,
but having it with the
protein to stabilize it more.
Or having the
protein on its own,
or having the protein
and the vegetables.
>> So the fats can
go with anything.
The fats are beautiful.
So add the avocado
on everything.
>> Perfect.
>> Yeah.